#  Project Goal:The goal for this project is to be able to accurately represent the chance to make or miss individual NFL field goals. This is different than  trying to predict made field goals with the highest possible accuracy, because getting a prediction right or wrong is less important than correctly calculating the odds of the kick being made or missed. # Project Summary:In my project, predicting made/miss percentages of individual NFL field goal attempts, I attempt to predict the percent chance of making individual field goal attempts. I have decided to attempt this because usually, the interest is in predicting field goal accuracy at a high percentage. However, the focus is usually on if kicks will be made or missed, not how likely any one attempt is to be made or missed. In that sense, my biggest concern is not whether or not the model correctly predicts a make or miss (although that is also important) but rather what the odds of a make or a miss are.The other part of this project is to take the individual kicker into account. Most general models I have seen that show percent chances of a kick being made or missed are done in general, assuming an average kicker. However, some kickers are much better than others, and that plays a big part in whether a coach decides to try a long field goal or not. This is why I want to account for the kicker in the model.I chose play by play data to get game state information for each kick, and I combined it with weather information (at the time of the game start) because weather can often play a large part in how likely a kick is to be made or missed. Since the goal is to calculate the odds of a kick being made or missed, more than whether or not the prediction of make or miss itself ends up being correct, f1 score becomes a more important metric than classification accuracy. For this reason, my main goal in the project is to maximize f1 score, although classification accuracy cannot be ignored entirely, so I keep track of that as well. I make models using logistic regression, decision trees, and random forests. For each, I make a basic model, use a grid search to try to optimize f1 score, and apply oversampling using RandomOverSampler in order to account for the imbalanced nature of the data to try to get models that are more likely to predict misses. Being able to predict misses is important for this project, because if the model does not predict misses, it is very likely to give highly inflated make chances for even very difficult kicks. # Summary of Data:For this project, I use two main sources of data. I use NFL play by play data which I take only field goal attempts from, and only attempts between the years of 2014 and 2018. The 2018 cutoff is due to the data ending at that time. The 2014 cutoff is implemented by me, because the NFL raised the height of the field goal uprights prior to the 2014 season. While it might not have a large impact on modelling, since kicks prior to 2014 would have been theoretically slightly easier to make, I chose to exclude those kicks.I also use weather data for NFL games at the time of kickoff, which I only use for games between 2014 and 2018 to match the play by play data.I select predictors I believe to be significant from each, and merge the sources to create the data I use to train models.The play by play data can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/maxhorowitz/nflplaybyplay2009to2016?select=NFL+Play+by+Play+2009-2018+%28v5%29.csv).The weather data can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/tobycrabtree/nfl-scores-and-betting-data).Note: This data is published under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).	I have only taken data from the "spreadspoke_scores.csv" file for this project. I am admittedly unsure what constitutes making changes to this data, so I will list everything I do with the data below.The columns I take from this data are "schedule _ date", "team _ home", "stadium", "weather _ temperature", "weather _ wind _ mph", and "weather _ detail". The "schedule _ date" and "team _ home" columns are only used for merging. I convert "schedule _ date" to datetime. I change "team _ home" to the team abbreviation instead of the full name (Baltimore Ravens becomes BAL). I rename "schedule _ date" and "team _ home" to "game _ date" and "home _ team" respectively to match the play by play names for merging, and fill null values in "weather _ detail" with the value of "Normal". I also use One Hot Encoding and scaling on all the data used for the project, which includes the columns used from this source.# Summary of Files:## Notebooks:Technical Notebook:The technical notebook, containing the report of the project.Model BuildingThe notebook used to make the models used for this project.## utils.py:A file containing scripts for use with the project.## Data:NFL Play by Play 2009-2018(v5).csv:The play by play data used for this project.spreadspoke_scores.csv:The data containing the weather information used in this project.## Presentation Slide Deck:Project 1 Slide Deck.pptx:The slides used for the presentation.#[Link to YouTube presentation](https://youtu.be/nhHgO8jziR8)